.TH STRATAGUS 6 "Oct 2011" "Stratagus"
.SH NAME
stratagus \- Strategy Gaming Engine
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B stratagus
.I [-a] [-c file.lua] [-d datapath] [-D depth] [-e] [-E file.lua] [-F|-W] [-G options] [-h] [-I addr] [-l]
.I [-N name] [-o|-O] [-p] [-P port] [-s sleep] [-S speed] [-v mode] [-x scaler-idx] [-Z] [map.smp|map.smp.gz]
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
This manual page documents briefly the flags that you can give to
.BR stratagus
, formerly known as FreeCraft, formerly known as ALE Clone.
.PP
.B stratagus
is a powerful game engine for building realtime strategy games, a la AoE or Warcraft.
.SH OPTIONS
A summary of options is included below.
.TP
.B \-a
Enables asserts check in engine code (for debugging)
.TP
.B \-c file.lua
Choose a different stratagus start config file.
.TP
.B \-d datapath
Choose a different directory to use for game data files.
.TP
.B \-D depth
Set the video mode depth, often called 'bpp' or 'bits per pixel'. This
option is only valid for Win32/NT.
.TP
.B \-e
Start the editor included in Stratagus.
.TP
.B \-E
Choose a different editor config file.
.TP
.B \-F
With this option you can start Stratagus in full screen video mode.
.TP
.B \-G "lua options"
The argument is passed as argument string to the lua game script. Take care to
quote if spaces are used. This can be used in conjunction with -c to have custom
startup routines with arguments.
.TP
.B \-h
Show summary of all options.
.TP
.B \-i
Enables unit info dumping into log (for debugging).
.TP
.B \-I addr
With this option you can specify the network address for network play.
.TP
.B \-l
Disable command log messages.
.TP
.B \-N name
The name of the player (will appear in network games).
.TP
.B \-o
Do not use OpenGL or OpenGL ES 1.1.
.TP
.B \-O
Use OpenGL or OpenGL ES 1.1.
.TP
.B \-p
Enables debug messages.
.TP
.B \-P port
With this option you can set the network port to use in network games.
The default value is port udp/6660.
.TP
.B \-s number
Number of frames before AI awakes. This is useful if the AI is too strong and
you want it to react slower. The higher, the easier will be the game against the
AI. Default is to sleep 0 time frames.
.TP
.B \-S number
Sync speed (100 = 30 frames/s).
.TP
.B \-v mode
With this option you can specify video mode resolution in format \fB<xres>\fRx\fB<yres>\fR
.TP
.B \-W
With this option you can start Stratagus in windowed video mode.
.TP
.B \-x filter-idx
In OpenGL mode, this controls the pixel scaling algorithm that is run on the
entire display. This runs on the GPU Fragment shader, so your card and driver
need to support at least OpenGL 1.3.
  -1 - OpenGL native texture scaling (disables scaling in the shader)
  1  - nearest neighbour
  2  - EPX/AdvMame
  3  - HQx
  4  - SAL
  5  - SuperEagle

This is especially useful in combination with -Z, since that will keep the
original size of all elements on the screen at the ratio they have at 640x480,
but scales everything to the chosen video resolution using the nice pixel
scaler. To try which scaler looks best at run-time, you can use Ctrl+Alt+/ to
cycle between scalers.
.TP
.B \-Z
Use OpenGL to scale the screen to the viewport. This is nice for games with
assets only in one resolution, where higher screen resolutions shouldn't make
everything smaller, but instead everything should be scaled up. Implies -O. Use
with -x to get nicer pixel scaling.
.SH "FILES"
.TP
.B ./
Default directory for Stratagus data files
.TP
.B ./scripts/stratagus.lua
Default start config file.
.TP
.B ./scripts/editor.lua
Default editor file.
.TP
.B ./scripts/guichan.lua
Default menu file.
.TP
.B ~/.stratagus/<data>/preferences.lua
User preferences configuration file for <data>
.TP
.B ~/.stratagus/<data>/logs/
User directory with replays/logs for <data>
.TP
.B ~/.stratagus/<data>/save/
User directory with saved games for <data>
.SH "SEE ALSO"
More complete documentation is available in /usr/share/doc/stratagus.
.SH NOTES
Stratagus needs a lot of data (maps and artwork), that can come from
external datasets, like Battle of Survival (BoS), or even from the media
in the Warcraft II CD, thanks to the Wargus dataset.
.PP
Warcraft II is a registered trademark of Blizzard Entertainment.
.SH AUTHOR
Stratagus is written and developed by the Stratagus Team and Contributors.
.PP
This manual page was written by Anthony Towns <ajt@debian.org>,
David Martínez Moreno <ender@debian.org>,
Pali Rohár <pali.rohar@gmail.com>, and
Tim Felgentreff <timfelgentreff@gmail.com> for the Debian GNU/Linux
system (but may be used by others).
